---
title: "The Persistence: Complete Edition"
description: "A single-player game on multiple platforms."
date: "Sep 15 2019"
videoURL: "https://vimeo.com/1010915239"
---

The Persistence: Complete Edition is an exhilarating first-person horror roguelike that takes
players on a heart-pounding journey through the dark corridors of a doomed space station. Combining
elements of stealth, strategy, and relentless action, this game immerses players in a terrifying
yet captivating atmosphere. With its unique gameplay mechanics and gripping narrative, The
Persistence offers an unforgettable gaming experience for fans of horror and sci-fi alike.

It received good coverage from [Metacritic](https://www.metacritic.com/game/the-persistence/).

## A Terrifying Setting

Set aboard the starship Persistence, players find themselves in a nightmarish environment where
things have gone horribly wrong. After a catastrophic event, the crew has transformed into
monstrous entities, and it's up to you to navigate through this menacing space station. The art
design brilliantly captures the eerie ambiance of deep space, with dimly lit hallways and
unsettling soundscapes that keep you on edge.

## Gameplay Mechanics

The Persistence: Complete Edition excels in its blend of roguelike elements with first-person
gameplay, creating a uniquely challenging experience. Players must explore procedurally generated
levels filled with dangers and hidden secrets, making each run feel fresh and unpredictable.

### Stealth and Strategy

A significant part of surviving in The Persistence revolves around stealth. Players must carefully
plan their moves, utilizing shadows and environmental cover to evade the grotesque enemies lurking
around every corner. This strategic gameplay encourages a methodical approach, making every
decision critical as you navigate the ship's claustrophobic layout.

### Combat and Upgrades

While stealth is essential, combat is unavoidable. Players can find various weapons and gadgets
throughout the ship, allowing for a range of approaches when faced with threats. The game also
features a unique upgrade system; every time you die, you can use resources collected during your
runs to enhance your character's abilities, creating a sense of progression even in failure.

## The Complete Edition Enhancements

The Persistence: Complete Edition offers players additional content and improvements over the
original release. With enhanced graphics and performance optimizations, the game looks and feels
better than ever. Players can also enjoy new game modes, including the challenging "Survival Mode,"
which tests your skills against relentless waves of enemies.

### VR Support

One of the standout features of The Persistence is its support for virtual reality, immersing
players even deeper into its chilling atmosphere. The VR experience enhances the horror elements,
 making encounters with enemies feel more intense and personal. Whether you're playing in VR or on
  a traditional setup, the game delivers a gripping experience.

## Engaging Narrative

Beyond its gameplay, The Persistence: Complete Edition also presents a compelling narrative.
Players uncover the story of the ill-fated crew through logs and environmental storytelling. As you
delve deeper into the ship, you'll piece together the events leading up to the chaos, adding an
intriguing layer to your survival quest.

### Final Thoughts

The Persistence: Complete Edition stands out as a thrilling blend of horror and strategy, offering
players an intense and immersive experience. Whether you're navigating the ship's eerie corridors
or facing off against terrifying foes, every moment is filled with tension and excitement. Prepare
yourself for a journey into the unknown and see if you can survive the horrors that await aboard
the Persistence!
